Cyber security incident response (IR) playbooks provide step-by-step guidelines to assist security operations analysts in quickly responding to specific incidents. This study presented a generative AI model designed to generate rapid IR playbooks, tailored to various cyber-attack vectors. A task-specific dataset was constructed using both open-source resources and GAN-generated synthetic data. By applying advanced natural language processing (NLP) techniques, key structural elements within these response playbooks were extracted to identify common patterns and interrelationships across various response playbooks. Leveraging these insights, a large language model (LLM) was fine-tuned to generate IR playbooks that adhere to industry best practices, providing a structured template, particularly adhering to the NIST IR lifecycle framework. The training was conducted over 75 steps on a GPU with 8GB of VRAM. The model achieved an optimal balance between computational efficiency and accuracy, providing a scalable solution for generating detailed, structured IR playbooks, in less than one minute, reducing the time required by over 96% compared to the traditional approach (approx. of 42 min). The model's ability to customised for both known and unknown threat scenarios was tested and validated during the model presentation session. The findings highlight the potential of LLMs to significantly improve the speed and accuracy of cybersecurity incident responses, offering a scalable tool for managing diverse threat scenarios and streamlining cybersecurity IR practices.

Code consists of three stages:
1. Data-processing (this file content is much larger and requires downloading to view it)
2. Fine-tuning
3. Inferencing
